[Music]
okay picture a store a big space with
long aisles and open shelves loaded with
all kinds of goods and everyone can buy
stuff for a fixed price that's what it
looks like today but it could have been
a totally different story if it wasn't
for this one man his name was Frank
Winfield Woolworth he invented the very
concept of the general store as we know
it today actually this bright idea was
just a follow up to the many struggles
he'd faced early on in his career he
managed to build a huge business empire
out of five cent shops but one thing at
a time the future millionaire was born
in a small town in New York in 1852 his
parents had a farm where he and his
little brother Charles spent their
entire childhood every day before school
Frank would milk cows and after classes
he went home to harvest potatoes when
the brothers had some time for
themselves they hung out around the
deserted house of Joseph Bonaparte
Napoleon's brother and the former king
of Spain lived in the US for over ten
years his old mansion was the place
where Frank dreamt of being an emperor
another thing Frank enjoyed playing was
merchants he liked pretending to bargain
with Charles but not all the salesmen
were his role models one year the
siblings saved up a little money to buy
their mom a birthday present they went
to the nearby city of Watertown with
fifty cents in their pockets and the
intention to choose something pretty but
when they entered the store to get a
scarf the assistants laughed at them
because they wanted to pay only in
change they told the poor kids to return
in a year's time if they managed to save
enough for a decent gift so they bought
a similar item in the shop next door
that day Frank told his brother that the
time would come when everyone would have
a chance to buy not one but five or more
things for fifty cents and sellers would
treat every customer with respect no
matter how much money they had to spend
if only he knew that he'd be the one who
turned this idea into reality you see he
was a dreamer his whole life that's what
his teachers thought about him too and
when Frank was 16 he dropped out of
school to spend all day at the farm soon
it became clear that he wasn't
particularly suited for it he was too
weak to work outside in wet and cold
weather but most importantly his heart
wasn't in it so he decided to learn
something that would eventually come in
handy
his mother helped him pay for a night
school course in bookkeeping Frank would
finish his work at the farm
then head to Watertown in the evening it
was really hard to keep up in class
after all he was just a country guy from
a poor family and certainly no match for
most of his classmates who had already
been working in the city but his
determination kept him going he made it
his aim to find a job there in Watertown
in 1873 his dad finally allowed him to
try his hand at Commerce Frank had six
months to establish himself and only
three months worth of money so he really
had no choice but to try his best a
family friend
took him into their shop and after a
month of training Woolworth was going to
his first interview at Augsburg and more
dry goods store it was really fancy and
securing a job there would be a huge
success for the 21 year old kid he had
practically no experience and well he
didn't look like a suitable candidate
the store was one of the best in the
city with well-dressed staff and good
service Frank didn't even have a suit
and came to the meeting without a tie
Augsburg thought him too green and
unskilled but fortunately for the young
man he had a partner who also had to say
in it William Moore was the one who gave
him a chance
thanks to Frank's bold move he had
almost nothing to lose so he offered to
work without pay for three months in
return he asked for food and a place to
sleep
the company also agreed to pay him three
dollars and fifty cents every week after
that period back then stores were very
different from what they are now items
were hidden behind cabinets and had no
price tags so people had to ask for it
clerks were the ones who informed them
and took out the products upon request
usually they'd also changed the original
cost depending on the customer this was
probably part of why he had a hard time
communicating with customers
Frank was clumsy and insecure he kept
asking weird questions and when the
employers couldn't stand it anymore they
sent him to the stockroom
his new duties include keeping the
storehouse cleaned
unpacking and inspecting the supplies
Moore was beginning to regret his
decision to hire him when he suddenly
discovered Frank's hidden talent he was
really good at organizing the front
display he would cover the table with a
red cloth to point out the goods and top
it off with pretty emblems demonstrating
their price even then he knew that if
properly arranged things could sell
themselves without the clerks as he grew
in confidence and developed new skills
it was only logical for him to earn more
when that wasn't possible in this
company he moved to another one
sadly the new boss had a completely
different approach to retail Frank was
pretty incompetent when it came to
customer service
and it was valued most in that firm when
they slashed his paychecks as a result
Frank was so stressed out he got sick
but there's always a bright side right
his family found a nurse for him Jenny
the two of them fell in love and when
she brought him back to health they got
married she also helped him get back to
his previous job in 1877 the store found
itself having way more unsold goods than
it should have they heard that other
businesses tackled this problem by
selling them for a fixed low cost Frank
adopted this idea and created a
beautiful display with a sign that read
any article on this table
five cents it was a hit and the products
disappeared by the end of the day just
like magic he liked this thought so much
he started to look for a way to finance
such an unusual business his dad didn't
have enough money and his uncle thought
it would be throwing good money away the
person who truly believed in Frank was
more who almost fired him once now he
gave him $300 worth of stock and wished
him luck
the first Woolworths great five cent
store opened its doors in Utica New York
in February 1879 the first item Frank
sold was a fire shovel after a few weeks
of success the crowds of customers
started to thin anyone else would have
given up at that moment but not Frank he
realized that the reason his store began
to fail was not his merchandising
strategy but the location he opened his
first shop in a back street and in order
to keep things going he decided to close
it down and start over in a different
location he launched the second shop in
Lancaster Pennsylvania in June of that
year in a single day more than 30% of
the supply was sold earning almost $130
in the following decades over 1,000
Woolworths stores open
Frank became one of the richest men in
America but he never forgot where he
came from he bailed out his former boss
more when he needed help in addition to
that he worked with his brother all
along who had gone from being a store
manager to a company chairman after
Woolworth five and dime shops became a
phenomena instead of talking people into
buying things they encouraged people to
feel at home Frank Woolworth made sure
everyone was able to purchase a quality
product at the low cost of five or ten
cents his stock may have been cheap but
his service always rose to the occasion
as he instructed his co-workers make it
a rule not to bore or annoy customers
let them look around to their heart's
content as a self-made man Frank always
tried to outdo himself before he turned
60 he decided to leave yet another
legacy and build a skyscraper the
Woolworth Building on Broadway was
opened in 1913 it had 60 stories and
remained the tallest building in the
world for almost 20 years it cost him an
unprecedented 13.5 million dollars even
today it's an impressive reminder that
everything is possible when you believe
in what you do so how about you do you
know any other stories of success that
inspire you let me know down in the
comments if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend
but hey don't go shopping just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life
right side of law